# Recru-tests-pytest-unittests-showskills 
Recru-tests-pytest-unittests-showskills 

Information for recruiters!!!

Stack:

Pytest, unitests, Sphinx, flake8, Makefile, Poetry, OOP, dynamic typing, AI assistants like Cody, and Copilot, ChatGPT

[in # Description more details]

---

## Table of Contents

1. [Description](#description)
2. [Requirements](#requirements)
3. [Preinstallation](#Preinstallation)
4. [Installation](#installation)
5. [Usage](#usage)
6. [Testing](#testing)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)
8. [License](#license)
9. [Additional](#additional commands) 

---

## Description

It shows my skill and understanding project maintaining, modern libraries, configuration project from scratch. 

Idea of unittest, work with terminal, execute pipelines, configure test in few ways including very basic way 
and gradually transform to modern advanced and sophisticated forms of configure and exectuing tests. 
Solution are easy adoptable to use CI/CD

Main idea is to use class in basic functionalities and in tests to show understanding of OOP. 

Managment of the project is created in library Poetry which is modern solution to projects.
This lib include manage virtual environment, libraries, dependencies, execute and run project. Poetry is modern solution 
more recommended than pipenv and pip+requirements nowadays.  

I implemented conception of dynamic typing of variables, functions,  in "typing" lib what is very necessary and usefull 
in nowadays coding and similar as developers use Typscript in JS.

tests including libs pytest, unittests, tools like pytest.ini, Makefile, Sphinx, flake8, pylint, 

readme.md in project is create in modern style with optimal structure. 

About documentation I used docstring to automatically generate documentation by sphinx. 
All comments are generated by AI solution from Github Copilot and Cody and Chatgpt directly from browser..
These 2 AI assistant I used in Pycharm.



---

##  Requirements:

Before starting the installation, make sure you have the following requirements:

- python 3.11.0 or newer
- Poetry (for managing dependencies)
- Internet access (if the app uses external APIs)

---

## Preinstallation
- first install pipenv to allow in next step installation of python from terminal
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y build-essential libssl-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev \
  libreadline-dev libsqlite3-dev wget curl llvm libncurses5-dev \
  libncursesw5-dev xz-utils tk-dev libffi-dev liblzma-dev
curl https://pyenv.run | bash
``` 

- add pyenv to environment variables
```bash
export PATH="$HOME/.pyenv/bin:$PATH"
eval "$(pyenv init --path)"
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
````

- next load config file
```bash
source ~/.bashrc  # or source ~/.zshrc
printenv
````

- install python 3.11
```bash
pyenv install 3.11.11
```

- this command download and install poetry lib - to manage virtual env in project and add path poetry to env path
```bash
"curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -"
export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
source ~/.bashrc
```

--- 

##  Installation 

- Create folder and clone files from git
- first open terminal and go to the place you want install project then
```bash 
    git clone https://github.com/Songo-Ku/Recru-tests-pytest-unittests-showskills 
    cd Pychart-Recru
```
- install dependencies/libs
```bash
poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true
poetry env use python3.11
poetry install
```
- activate venv
```bash
poetry run
```

- when you are inside folder after cf command you should see charts.py, poetry.lock files

---

## Usage
```bash
"poetry run python main.py"
---

## Testing

   ```bash
   poetry install
   poetry run pytest
   poetry run pytest tests/test_calculator.py
   poetry run pytest --cov=my_project
   ```

---

## Contribution



---

## License



This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
MIT License:



---

## Additional
Analiza kodu w flake 8
```bash 
poetry run flake8
or
make flake8-lint
```
Analiza kodu w pylint

```bash
poetry run pylint .
or
make pylint
```
Pylint evaluate code rated at "Your code has been rated at 8.24/10"

Documentation rely on lib sphinx added to file Makefile in main directory of project
Command to reuse documentation after change in code. In case of changes in code there is need 
to update manualy file docs/source/index.rst.

Generate update of documentation by command:

```bash
make -B docs
```
Command to show documentation created by sphinx from html file
```bash
xdg-open docs/build/index.html
```
